W-23049664 PDK Websockets (#1091)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: pdk/1.9/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-pdk-configure-features-websocket.adoc

[source,toml]
----
[dependencies]
pdk = { version = "1.9.0", features = ["experimental_websocket"]}
----

== Configure WebSocket Handlers

To access WebSocket functionality, use the `FilterBuilder` with `on_upgrade_upstream` and `on_upgrade_downstream` handlers:

[source,rust]
----
use pdk::hl::*;
use pdk::websockets::{Decoder, Encoder, Frame, FrameType};

pub async fn configure(launcher: Launcher) -> Result<()> {
    let handler = FilterBuilder::new()
        .on_create(|| YourPolicyState {})
        .on_request(|_req: RequestState| async move { Flow::Continue(()) })
        .on_upgrade_upstream(handle_upstream)
        .on_upgrade_downstream(handle_downstream)
        .build();

    launcher.launch(handler).await?;
    Ok(())
}
----

== Supported Frame Types

The PDK supports these WebSocket frame types:

* `FrameType::Text`: Text data frames
* `FrameType::Binary`: Binary data frames
* `FrameType::Close`: Connection close frames
* `FrameType::Ping`: Ping frames
* `FrameType::Pong`: Pong frames

To maintain the WebSocket protocol integrity, pass control frames (Close, Ping, Pong) through without modification.

== Maintain Frame Boundaries

> To ensure your policy processes complete WebSocket messages regardless of how they arrive from the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure your policy processes complete WebSocket messages regardless of how they arrive from the network.
```

WebSocket frames might be fragmented across multiple chunks. PDK ensures your policy processes complete WebSocket messages regardless of how they arrive by:

> . Accumulating bytes using `state.accumulate().await` when no complete frames are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Accumulating bytes using `state.accumulate().await` when complete frames aren't available.
```
